Interruptable Pipelines (#5867)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/en/tutorials/interrupting_diffusion_process.md

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Interrupt the Diffusion Process

The following Pipelines support interrupting the diffusion process via callback

- [StableDiffusionPipeline](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/overview.md)
- [StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline](..api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/img2img.md)
- [StableDiffusionInpaintPipeline](..api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/inpaint.md)
- [StableDiffusionXLPipeline](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl.md)
- [StableDiffusionXLImg2ImgPipeline](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl.md)
- [StableDiffusionXLInpaintPipeline](../api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl.md)

> This is particularly useful when building UIs that work with Diffusers as it allows users to stop the generation process if they are unhappy with the intermediate results.

Reviewer: Stronger to lead with this sentence since it states the purpose of the interrupt callback and why it is useful:

```suggestion
Interrupting the diffusion process is particularly useful when building UIs that work with Diffusers because it allows users to stop the generation process if they're unhappy with the intermediate results. You can incorporate this into your pipeline with a callback.
```

> Callback functions take the following arguments: `pipe`, `i`, `t`, `callback_kwargs` and must return `callback_kwargs`. Interrupt the diffusion process by setting `pipe._interrupt = True` inside the callback function. You are free to implement custom stopping logic inside the callback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This callback function should take the following arguments: `pipe`, `i`, `t`, and `callback_kwargs` (this must be returned). Set the pipeline's `_interrupt` attribute to `True` to stop the diffusion process after a certain number of steps. You are also free to implement your own custom stopping logic inside the callback.
```

> In the example below, we stop the diffusion process after 10 steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the diffusion process is stopped after 10 steps even though `num_inference_steps` is set to 50.
```

```python
from diffusers import StableDiffusionPipeline

pipe = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5")
pipe.enable_model_cpu_offload()
num_inference_steps = 50

def interrupt_callback(pipe, i, t, callback_kwargs):
    stop_idx = 10
    if i == stop_idx:
        pipe._interrupt = True

    return callback_kwargs

pipe(
    "A photo of a cat",
    num_inference_steps=num_inference_steps,
    callback_on_step_end=interrupt_callback,

> )

Reviewer: Maybe it'd be nice to show an image generated from this so users can see it.

Author: This one is tricky. Since the interrupting the process wouldn't produce a great image.
